Outline for registration of births and deaths

1. registration of both is done by the registrar with jurisdication over a
particular area. This simplifies addresses as country, state, area can be
coded in one place in config itself

2. Record keeping is essential for transparency. So we cant just have a
simple form to be added/edited, but have to lay an audit trail

3. Both births and deaths the process starts with a report from and
informant. The report may be in official form or in writing. It could also
be over the web, telephone or by email or oral.

4. Once a report is filed, a file is created. The report is then
scrutinised for completeness, and if any particulars are missing it is
returned for rectification.

5. A returned report may not be resubmitted - in this event the file is
closed and marked no further action

6. when the report is complete, verification is done. A negative
verification will also NFA the file - verification remark is added and file
closed. Part of verification is a check for duplicate.

7. The complete and verified report is then scrutinised and approved

8. On approval the details of the report are entered into the register

8(a). for births a provision is there to add the name of the child when the
child is named - this also follows application-verification-approval route

9. An application may be made to change or remove an entry in the register

10. this application also goes through scrutiny, verification and approval

11. Applications may be made for birth/death certificates. On verification,
if the party is entitled to it, the certificate is issued on payment of the
fee. Else it is refused and the application filed along with the remark

12. Birth and death statistics can be generated.

Database schema:

master tables:
1. areas - could be wards in a municipality or villages in rural areas
2. officials - name, designation, authority (scrutinise, verify, add,
approve)
3. birthplacetypes - home, hospital, nursinghome etc
4. deathplacetypes - same thing
5. reportypes - form, letter, phone, oral, web etc
6. transactiontypes - openingfile, scrutiny, returning, verification,
approval, deletion, modification, certificateissue, certificaterefusal

Reportsregister:

id
date opened
reportytpe - fk to reportypes
filenumber
physical location of report
location of digital copy of report
accepted/rejected
dateclosed



birthregister:

id
name
fathers name
mothers name
address
area
report - foreignkey to reports table
date of birth
date registered
sex
identity code number
birthplace - foreignkey to birthplaces

deathregister:

id
firstname
lastname
fathers/husbands/mothers name
date of death
deathplace - foreign key to deathplaces
place of death
cause of death
area - fk to areas
addresss
date registered
report - foreign key to reports table

Transactions: 

reporthandling

report - fk to reports table
transactiontype - fk to transactiontypes
date
official - fk to officials
note - text

registerhandling

register - fk to register
transactiontype - fk to transactiontypes
date
official - fk to officials
note - text

certificatehandling

report - fk to reports table
date
approved/rejected
note
do we need to store to whom issued?